.TH oggify 1 "May 08, 2008" "" "Oggify"
.SH NAME
oggify \(em convert audio to different formats, preserving organization

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oggify
[
.B options
]
.I source_directory
.I destination_directory

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B oggify
is a program which assists in the conversion of audio collections to different formats. It takes a directory containing audio files of a given format and produces a directory with the same structure as the original but with the audio files re-encoded in a different format. It is intended to make it easy to keep up-to-date replicas of a collection.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-s " plugin"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-source " plugin"
Use
.I plugin
as the source audio format. Default is "flac".

.TP
.BI \-o " plugin
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-output " plugin"
Use 
.I plugin
as the output audio format. Default is "ogg".

.TP
.BI \-q " n"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-quality " n"
Set the output format quality to
.I n.
Default is 5.

.TP
.BI \-L
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-follow-symlinks
Have OGGIFY follow symbolic links in the source directory tree.

.TP
.BI \-p
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-pretend
Only print what OGGIFY will do, perform no action.

.TP
.BI \-r
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-refresh
Re-encode files when the source file is newer than the output file.

.TP
.BI \-t
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-retag
Reapply audio tags (Vorbis Comments, ID3, etc) on output files when the source file is newer.

.TP
.BI \-c
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-clean
Remove output files that are encoded in a format different than the one specified. If you've previously ran with the output set to "ogg" and then run with the output set to "mp3" and use this option, all of the Ogg Vorbis files will be deleted.

.TP
.BI \-P
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-purge
Remove files in the destination that do not exist in the source. Directories will only be removed if empty.

.TP
.BI \-n " n"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-nice " n"
.BR nice (1)
the OGGIFY processes to 
.I n.
Default is 10.

.TP
.BI \-v
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-verbose
Print out additional information about the actions being performed.

.TP
.BI "\-h [" plugin ]
.PD 0
.TP
.BI "\-\-help [" plugin ]
Display the standard help message and exit. If you specify 
.I plugin
, display the help for that plugin.

.TP
.BI \-\-version
Display the version and exit.

.SH DETAILED USE CASE
.PP
We assume that the user has a well organized directory of lossless audio files in the FLAC format. The user needs to convert all of these to MP3 and wants to preserve the organization and tags. By running
.B oggify
the user now has the directory with MP3's as desired. (oggify -o mp3)

.PP
Later the user has added new files to their collection and by running
.B oggify
again the MP3 directory is updated with the new files, but no old ones are re-encoded.

.PP
If certain tags in the source directory are updated, the user can pass those changes on to the MP3's by running
.B oggify
with the re-tagging option. (-t --retag)

.PP
If a bad rip occurred the updated files can be re-encoded by running
.B oggify
with the refresh option. (-r --refresh)

.SH EXAMPLES

Basic use. Find all flac files in one directory tree and create ogg files in a similar directory tree:
.RS
oggify flacs oggs
.RE
.PP

Encode out to mp3:
.RS
oggify -o mp3 flacs mp3s
.RE
.PP

Encode at a higher quality, and do not nice:
.RS
oggify -q 8 -n 0 flacs oggs
.RE
.PP

Encode new files, and re-encode files that have been modified more recently in the source. Remove files that are in the source, but in the wrong output format.
.RS
oggify -o mp3 -c -r flacs mp3s
.RE
.PP

Encode and remove all files that do not exist in the source:
.RS
oggify -P flacs oggs
.RE
.PP

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Scott Paul Robertson <spr@scottr.org>
http://scottr.org/oggify/

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flac (1),
.BR oggenc (1),
.BR lame (1)
